Natcomms update (#2)
mrc-ide/sarscov2-severity-england: README.md

> Epidemiological drivers of transmissibility and severity of SARS-CoV-2 in England

## Update

This repository was updated on 6 November 2023, in line with a correction submitted to the [published manuscript](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-39661-5) in Nature Communications.

Changes were made to model parameters of cross-immunity against hospitalisation and death given severe disease with the Omicron variant, following prior infection with a previous variant.

For the hospitalisation parameter, we describe it in supplementary table S11 as a 0.55 probability, as informed by a 2022 study by [Nyberg et al.](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(22)00462-7/fulltext). In our original submission’s code, however, we had erroneously coded it as 0.45 (i.e. 1 – 0.55), so we corrected this.

> For the probability of death, we updated this to 0.33 (i.e. 0.18 / 0.55, in the latest version of this code). As described for our model, disease severity progression is a process conditional upon transition to the immediately preceding severity pathway compartment. In the same study by Nyberg et al., authors report an unconditional hazard ratio of 0.18 (95%CI 0.06 – 0.57) given infection with Omicron amongst unvaccinated individuals with a prior history of infection, comparted to those without. We believe the updated parameter is thus a more accurate interpretation of the source literature within the context or our model’s dynamics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the probability of death, we updated this to 0.33 (i.e. 0.18 / 0.55, in the latest version of this code). As described for our model, disease severity progression is a process conditional upon transition to the immediately preceding severity pathway compartment. In the same study by Nyberg et al., authors report an unconditional hazard ratio of 0.18 (95%CI 0.06 – 0.57) given infection with Omicron amongst unvaccinated individuals with a prior history of infection, compared to those without. We believe the updated parameter is thus a more accurate interpretation of the source literature within the context of our model’s dynamics.
```
